README.md, before:

<div align="center">
<h1>Qwik Testing Library</h1>

<img
height="80"
width="80"
alt="qwik-testing-library logo depicts a high voltage emoji"
src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ianlet/qwik-testing-library/main/high-voltage.png"
/>

<p>Simple and complete Qwik testing utilities that encourage good testing practices.</p>

[**Read The Docs**][qtl-docs] | [Edit the docs][qtl-docs-repo]

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
[![Build Status][build-badge]][build]
[![version][version-badge]][package]
[![downloads][downloads-badge]][downloads]
[![MIT License][license-badge]][license]

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
[![All Contributors](https://img.shields.io/badge/all_contributors-1-orange.svg?style=flat-square)](#contributors-)
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:END -->
[![PRs Welcome][prs-badge]][prs]
[![Code of Conduct][coc-badge]][coc]
[![Discord][discord-badge]][discord]

[![Watch on GitHub][github-watch-badge]][github-watch]
[![Star on GitHub][github-star-badge]][github-star]
[![Tweet][twitter-badge]][twitter]
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->
</div>

<hr />

[qtl-docs]: #installation

[qtl-docs-repo]: https://github.com/ianlet/qwik-testing-library/blob/main/README.md

[build-badge]: https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/ianlet/qwik-testing-library/ci.yml?style=flat-square

[build]: https://github.com/ianlet/qwik-testing-library/actions

[coverage-badge]: https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/ianlet/qwik-testing-library.svg?style=flat-square

[coverage]: https://codecov.io/github/ianlet/qwik-testing-library

[version-badge]: https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@noma.to/qwik-testing-library.svg?style=flat-square

[package]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@noma.to/qwik-testing-library

[downloads-badge]: https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@noma.to/qwik-testing-library.svg?style=flat-square

[downloads]: http://www.npmtrends.com/@noma.to/qwik-testing-library

[license-badge]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/ianlet/qwik-testing-library?color=b&style=flat-square

[license]: https://github.com/ianlet/qwik-testing-library/blob/main/LICENSE

[prs-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square

[prs]: http://makeapullrequest.com

[coc-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20of-conduct-ff69b4.svg?style=flat-square

[coc]: https://github.com/ianlet/qwik-testing-library/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md

[discord-badge]: https://img.shields.io/discord/723559267868737556.svg?color=7389D8&labelColor=6A7EC2&logo=discord&logoColor=ffffff&style=flat-square

[discord]: https://qwik.dev/chat

[github-watch-badge]: https://img.shields.io/github/watchers/ianlet/qwik-testing-library.svg?style=social

[github-watch]: https://github.com/ianlet/qwik-testing-library/watchers

[github-star-badge]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/ianlet/qwik-testing-library.svg?style=social

[github-star]: https://github.com/ianlet/qwik-testing-library/stargazers

[twitter]: https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=Check%20out%20qwik-testing-library%20by%20%40noma_hq%20https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fianlet%2Fqwik-testing-library%20%F0%9F%91%8D

[twitter-badge]: https://img.shields.io/twitter/url/https/github.com/ianlet/qwik-testing-library.svg?style=social

## Table of Contents

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->

- [The Problem](#the-problem)
- [This Solution](#this-solution)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Setup](#setup)
- [Examples](#examples)
    - [Qwikstart](#qwikstart)
    - [Qwik City - `server$` calls](#qwik-city---server-calls)
- [Gotchas](#gotchas)
- [Issues](#issues)
    - [🐛 Bugs](#-bugs)
    - [💡 Feature Requests](#-feature-requests)
    - [❓ Questions](#-questions)
- [Contributors](#contributors)
- [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## The Problem

You want to write maintainable tests for your [Qwik][qwik] components.

[qwik]: https://qwik.dev/

## This Solution

`@noma.to/qwik-testing-library` is a lightweight library for testing Qwik
components. It provides functions on top of `qwik` and
`@testing-library/dom` so you can mount Qwik components and query their
rendered output in the DOM. Its primary guiding principle is:

> [The more your tests resemble the way your software is used, the more
> confidence they can give you.][guiding-principle]

[guiding-principle]: https://twitter.com/kentcdodds/status/977018512689455106

## Installation

This module is distributed via [npm][npm] which is bundled with [node][node] and
should be installed as one of your project's `devDependencies`:

```shell
npm install --save-dev @noma.to/qwik-testing-library
```

This library supports `qwik` versions `1.7.2` and above.

You may also be interested in installing `@testing-library/jest-dom` and `@testing-library/user-event` so you can
use [the custom jest matchers][jest-dom] and [the user event library][user-event] to test interactions with the DOM.

```shell
npm install --save-dev @testing-library/jest-dom @testing-library/user-event
```

Finally, we need a DOM environment to run the tests in.
This library was tested (for now) only with `jsdom` so we recommend using it:

```shell
npm install --save-dev jsdom
```

[npm]: https://www.npmjs.com/

[node]: https://nodejs.org

[jest-dom]: https://github.com/testing-library/jest-dom

[user-event]: https://github.com/testing-library/user-event

## Setup

We recommend using `@noma.to/qwik-testing-library` with [Vitest][] as your test
runner.

If you haven't done so already, add vitest to your project using Qwik CLI:

```shell
npm qwik add vitest
```

After that, we need to configure Vitest so it can run your tests.
For this, create a _separate_ `vitest.config.ts` so you don't have to modify your project's `vite.config.ts`:

```ts
// vitest.config.ts

import {defineConfig, mergeConfig} from "vitest/config";
import viteConfig from "./vite.config";

export default defineConfig((configEnv) =>
  mergeConfig(
    viteConfig(configEnv),
    defineConfig({
      // qwik-testing-library needs to consider your project as a Qwik lib
      // if it's already a Qwik lib, you can remove this section
      build: {
        target: "es2020",
        lib: {
          entry: "./src/index.ts",
          formats: ["es", "cjs"],
          fileName: (format, entryName) =>
            `${entryName}.qwik.${format === "es" ? "mjs" : "cjs"}`,
        },
      },
      // configure your test environment
      test: {
        environment: "jsdom",
        setupFiles: ["./vitest.setup.ts"],
        globals: true,
      },
    }),
  ),
);
```

For now, `qwik-testing-library` needs to consider your project as a lib ([PR welcomed][prs] to simplify this).
Hence, the `build.lib` section in the config above.

As the build will try to use `./src/index.ts` as the entry point, we need to create it:

```ts
// ./src/index.ts

/**
 * DO NOT DELETE THIS FILE
 *
 * This entrypoint is needed by @noma.to/qwik-testing-library to run your tests
 */
```

Then, create the `vitest.setup.ts` file:

```ts
// vitest.setup.ts

import {afterEach} from "vitest";
import "@testing-library/jest-dom/vitest";

// This has to run before qdev.ts loads. `beforeAll` is too late
globalThis.qTest = false; // Forces Qwik to run as if it was in a Browser
globalThis.qRuntimeQrl = true;
globalThis.qDev = true;
globalThis.qInspector = false;

afterEach(async () => {
  const {cleanup} = await import("@noma.to/qwik-testing-library");
  cleanup();
});
```

This setup will make sure that Qwik is properly configured and that everything gets cleaned after each test.

Additionally, it loads `@testing-library/jest-dom/vitest` in your test runner so you can use matchers like
`expect(...).toBeInTheDocument()`.

Finally, edit your `tsconfig.json` to declare the following global types:

```diff
// tsconfig.json

{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "types": [
+     "vite/client",
+     "vitest/globals",
+     "@testing-library/jest-dom/vitest"
    ]
  },
  "include": ["src"]
}
```

[vitest]: https://vitest.dev/

## Examples

Below are some examples of how to use `@noma.to/qwik-testing-library` to tests your Qwik components.

You can also learn more about the [**queries**][tl-queries-docs] and [**user events**][tl-user-events-docs] over at the
Testing Library website.

[tl-queries-docs]: https://testing-library.com/docs/queries/about

[tl-user-events-docs]: https://testing-library.com/docs/user-event/intro

### Qwikstart

This is a minimal setup to get you started, with line-by-line explanations.

```tsx
// counter.spec.tsx

// import qwik-testing methods
import {screen, render, waitFor} from "@noma.to/qwik-testing-library";
// import the userEvent methods to interact with the DOM
import {userEvent} from "@testing-library/user-event";
// import the component to be tested
import {Counter} from "./counter";

// describe the test suite
describe("<Counter />", () => {
  // describe the test case
  it("should increment the counter", async () => {
    // render the component into the DOM
    await render(<Counter/>);

    // retrieve the 'increment count' button
    const incrementBtn = screen.getByRole("button", {name: /increment count/});
    // click the button twice
    await userEvent.click(incrementBtn);
    await userEvent.click(incrementBtn);

    // assert that the counter is now 2
    await waitFor(() => expect(screen.getByText(/count:2/)).toBeInTheDocument());
  });
})
```

### Qwik City - `server$` calls

If one of your Qwik components uses `server$` calls, your tests might fail with a rather cryptic message (e.g. `QWIK
ERROR __vite_ssr_import_0__.myServerFunctionQrl is not a function` or
`QWIK ERROR Failed to parse URL from ?qfunc=DNpotUma33o`).

We're happy to discuss it on [Discord][discord], but we consider this failure to be a good thing:
your components should be tested in isolation, so you will be forced to mock your server functions.

Here is an example of how to test a component that uses `server$` calls:

```ts
// ~/server/blog-posts.ts

import {server$} from "@builder.io/qwik-city";
import {BlogPost} from "~/lib/blog-post";

export const getLatestPosts$ = server$(function (): Promise<BlogPost> {
  // get the latest posts
  return Promise.resolve([]);
});
```

```tsx
// ~/components/latest-post-list.spec.tsx

import {render, screen, waitFor} from "@noma.to/qwik-testing-library";
import {LatestPostList} from "./latest-post-list";

vi.mock('~/server/blog-posts', () => ({
  // the mocked function should end with `Qrl` instead of `$`
  getLatestPostsQrl: () => {
    return Promise.resolve([{id: 'post-1', title: 'Post 1'}, {id: 'post-2', title: 'Post 2'}]);
  },
}));

describe('<LatestPostList />', () => {
  it('should render the latest posts', async () => {
    await render(<LatestPostList/>);

    await waitFor(() => expect(screen.queryAllByRole('listitem')).toHaveLength(2));
  });
});
```

Notice how the mocked function is ending with `Qrl` instead of `$`, despite being named as `getLatestPosts$`.
This is caused by the Qwik optimizer renaming it to `Qrl`.
So, we need to mock the `Qrl` function instead of the original `$` one.

If your `server$` function doesn't end with `$`, the Qwik optimizer might not rename it to `Qrl`.

## Gotchas

* Watch mode (at least in Webstorm) doesn't seem to work well: components are not being updated with your latest changes

## Issues

_Looking to contribute? Look for the [Good First Issue][good-first-issue]
label._

[good-first-issue]: https://github.com/ianlet/qwik-testing-library/issues?utf8=✓&q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Areactions-%2B1-desc+label%3A"good+first+issue"+

### 🐛 Bugs

Please file an issue for bugs, missing documentation, or unexpected behavior.

[**See Bugs**][bugs]

[bugs]: https://github.com/ianlet/qwik-testing-library/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Abug+sort%3Acreated-desc

### 💡 Feature Requests

Please file an issue to suggest new features. Vote on feature requests by adding
a 👍. This helps maintainers prioritize what to work on.

[**See Feature Requests**][requests]

[requests]: https://github.com/ianlet/qwik-testing-library/issues?q=is%3Aissue+sort%3Areactions-%2B1-desc+label%3Aenhancement+is%3Aopen

### ❓ Questions

For questions related to using the library, please visit a support community
instead of filing an issue on GitHub.

- [Discord][discord]
- [Stack Overflow][stackoverflow]

[stackoverflow]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/qwik-testing-library

## Contributors

Thanks goes to these people ([emoji key][emojis]):
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://noma.to/"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/6018732?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Ian Létourneau"/><br /><sub><b>Ian Létourneau</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/ianlet/qwik-testing-library/commits?author=ianlet" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/ianlet/qwik-testing-library/commits?author=ianlet" title="Tests">⚠️</a> <a href="#ideas-ianlet" title="Ideas, Planning, & Feedback">🤔</a> <a href="https://github.com/ianlet/qwik-testing-library/commits?author=ianlet" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="#example-ianlet" title="Examples">💡</a></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
      <td align="center" size="13px" colspan="7">
        <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/all-contributors/all-contributors-cli/1b8533af435da9854653492b1327a23a4dbd0a10/assets/logo-small.svg">
          <a href="https://all-contributors.js.org/docs/en/bot/usage">Add your contributions</a>
        </img>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
</table>

<!-- markdownlint-restore -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->

This project follows the [all-contributors][all-contributors] specification.
Contributions of any kind welcome!

[emojis]: https://github.com/all-contributors/all-contributors#emoji-key

[all-contributors]: https://github.com/all-contributors/all-contributors

## Acknowledgements

Massive thanks to the [Qwik Team][qwik-team] and the whole community for their efforts to build Qwik and for
the [inspiration][qwik-baseline] on how to create a testing library for Qwik.

Thanks to the [Testing Library Team][tl-team] for a great set of tools to build better products, confidently, and
qwikly.

[qwik-team]: https://github.com/QwikDev/qwik/

[qwik-baseline]: https://github.com/QwikDev/qwik/tree/main/packages/qwik/src/testing

[tl-team]: https://testing-library.com

Commit message:

feat(docs): add qwik-cli integration as the preferred way to setup qwik-testing-library
fix #8

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
<h1>Qwik Testing Library</h1>

<img
height="80"
width="80"
alt="qwik-testing-library logo depicts a high voltage emoji"
src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ianlet/qwik-testing-library/main/high-voltage.png"
/>

<p>Simple and complete Qwik testing utilities that encourage good testing practices.</p>

[**Read The Docs**][qtl-docs] | [Edit the docs][qtl-docs-repo]

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
[![Build Status][build-badge]][build]
[![version][version-badge]][package]
[![downloads][downloads-badge]][downloads]
[![MIT License][license-badge]][license]

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
[![All Contributors](https://img.shields.io/badge/all_contributors-1-orange.svg?style=flat-square)](#contributors-)
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:END -->
[![PRs Welcome][prs-badge]][prs]
[![Code of Conduct][coc-badge]][coc]
[![Discord][discord-badge]][discord]

[![Watch on GitHub][github-watch-badge]][github-watch]
[![Star on GitHub][github-star-badge]][github-star]
[![Tweet][twitter-badge]][twitter]
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->
</div>

<hr />

[qtl-docs]: #installation

[qtl-docs-repo]: https://github.com/ianlet/qwik-testing-library/blob/main/README.md

[build-badge]: https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/ianlet/qwik-testing-library/ci.yml?style=flat-square

[build]: https://github.com/ianlet/qwik-testing-library/actions

[coverage-badge]: https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/ianlet/qwik-testing-library.svg?style=flat-square

[coverage]: https://codecov.io/github/ianlet/qwik-testing-library

[version-badge]: https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@noma.to/qwik-testing-library.svg?style=flat-square

[package]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@noma.to/qwik-testing-library

[downloads-badge]: https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@noma.to/qwik-testing-library.svg?style=flat-square

[downloads]: http://www.npmtrends.com/@noma.to/qwik-testing-library

[license-badge]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/ianlet/qwik-testing-library?color=b&style=flat-square

[license]: https://github.com/ianlet/qwik-testing-library/blob/main/LICENSE

[prs-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square

[prs]: http://makeapullrequest.com

[coc-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20of-conduct-ff69b4.svg?style=flat-square

[coc]: https://github.com/ianlet/qwik-testing-library/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md

[discord-badge]: https://img.shields.io/discord/723559267868737556.svg?color=7389D8&labelColor=6A7EC2&logo=discord&logoColor=ffffff&style=flat-square

[discord]: https://qwik.dev/chat

[github-watch-badge]: https://img.shields.io/github/watchers/ianlet/qwik-testing-library.svg?style=social

[github-watch]: https://github.com/ianlet/qwik-testing-library/watchers

[github-star-badge]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/ianlet/qwik-testing-library.svg?style=social

[github-star]: https://github.com/ianlet/qwik-testing-library/stargazers

[twitter]: https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=Check%20out%20qwik-testing-library%20by%20%40noma_hq%20https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fianlet%2Fqwik-testing-library%20%F0%9F%91%8D

[twitter-badge]: https://img.shields.io/twitter/url/https/github.com/ianlet/qwik-testing-library.svg?style=social

## Table of Contents

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->

- [The Problem](#the-problem)
- [This Solution](#this-solution)
- [Setup](#setup)
    - [Qwik CLI (preferred)](#qwik-cli-preferred)
    - [Manual Installation](#manual-installation)
- [Examples](#examples)
    - [Qwikstart](#qwikstart)
    - [Qwik City - `server$` calls](#qwik-city---server-calls)
- [Gotchas](#gotchas)
- [Issues](#issues)
    - [🐛 Bugs](#-bugs)
    - [💡 Feature Requests](#-feature-requests)
    - [❓ Questions](#-questions)
- [Contributors](#contributors)
- [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## The Problem

You want to write maintainable tests for your [Qwik][qwik] components.

[qwik]: https://qwik.dev/

## This Solution

`@noma.to/qwik-testing-library` is a lightweight library for testing Qwik
components. It provides functions on top of `qwik` and
`@testing-library/dom` so you can mount Qwik components and query their
rendered output in the DOM. Its primary guiding principle is:

> [The more your tests resemble the way your software is used, the more
> confidence they can give you.][guiding-principle]

[guiding-principle]: https://twitter.com/kentcdodds/status/977018512689455106

## Setup

### Qwik CLI (preferred)

For the best experience, you can use the [Qwik CLI][qwik-cli] to install this library.
It takes care of configuring your project for you and adding all the required dependencies.
It will also add an example on how to test your Qwik components with `qwik-testing-library`.

```shell
pnpm qwik add testing-library
```

If you prefer to do it yourself, or are curious about what the command above will do for you, follow along.

[qwik-cli]: https://qwik.dev/docs/integrations/testing-library/

### Manual Installation

This module is distributed via [npm][npm] which is bundled with [node][node] and
should be installed as one of your project's `devDependencies`:

```shell
npm install --save-dev @noma.to/qwik-testing-library
```

This library supports `qwik` versions `1.7.2` and above.

You may also be interested in installing `@testing-library/jest-dom` and `@testing-library/user-event` so you can
use [the custom jest matchers][jest-dom] and [the user event library][user-event] to test interactions with the DOM.

```shell
npm install --save-dev @testing-library/jest-dom @testing-library/user-event
```

Finally, we need a DOM environment to run the tests in.
This library was tested (for now) only with `jsdom` so we recommend using it:

```shell
npm install --save-dev jsdom
```

[npm]: https://www.npmjs.com/

[node]: https://nodejs.org

[jest-dom]: https://github.com/testing-library/jest-dom

[user-event]: https://github.com/testing-library/user-event

We recommend using `@noma.to/qwik-testing-library` with [Vitest][vitest] as your test runner.

If you haven't done so already, add vitest to your project using Qwik CLI:

```shell
npm qwik add vitest
```

After that, we need to configure Vitest so it can run your tests.
For this, create a _separate_ `vitest.config.ts` so you don't have to modify your project's `vite.config.ts`:

```ts
// vitest.config.ts

import {defineConfig, mergeConfig} from "vitest/config";
import viteConfig from "./vite.config";

export default defineConfig((configEnv) =>
  mergeConfig(
    viteConfig(configEnv),
    defineConfig({
      // qwik-testing-library needs to consider your project as a Qwik lib
      // if it's already a Qwik lib, you can remove this section
      build: {
        target: "es2020",
        lib: {
          entry: "./src/index.ts",
          formats: ["es", "cjs"],
          fileName: (format, entryName) =>
            `${entryName}.qwik.${format === "es" ? "mjs" : "cjs"}`,
        },
      },
      // configure your test environment
      test: {
        environment: "jsdom",
        setupFiles: ["./vitest.setup.ts"],
        globals: true,
      },
    }),
  ),
);
```

For now, `qwik-testing-library` needs to consider your project as a lib ([PR welcomed][prs] to simplify this).
Hence, the `build.lib` section in the config above.

As the build will try to use `./src/index.ts` as the entry point, we need to create it:

```ts
// ./src/index.ts

/**
 * DO NOT DELETE THIS FILE
 *
 * This entrypoint is needed by @noma.to/qwik-testing-library to run your tests
 */
```

Then, create the `vitest.setup.ts` file:

```ts
// vitest.setup.ts

import {afterEach} from "vitest";
import "@testing-library/jest-dom/vitest";

// This has to run before qdev.ts loads. `beforeAll` is too late
globalThis.qTest = false; // Forces Qwik to run as if it was in a Browser
globalThis.qRuntimeQrl = true;
globalThis.qDev = true;
globalThis.qInspector = false;

afterEach(async () => {
  const {cleanup} = await import("@noma.to/qwik-testing-library");
  cleanup();
});
```

This setup will make sure that Qwik is properly configured and that everything gets cleaned after each test.

Additionally, it loads `@testing-library/jest-dom/vitest` in your test runner so you can use matchers like
`expect(...).toBeInTheDocument()`.

Finally, edit your `tsconfig.json` to declare the following global types:

```diff
// tsconfig.json

{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "types": [
+     "vite/client",
+     "vitest/globals",
+     "@testing-library/jest-dom/vitest"
    ]
  },
  "include": ["src"]
}
```

[vitest]: https://vitest.dev/

## Examples

Below are some examples of how to use `@noma.to/qwik-testing-library` to tests your Qwik components.

You can also learn more about the [**queries**][tl-queries-docs] and [**user events**][tl-user-events-docs] over at the
Testing Library website.

[tl-queries-docs]: https://testing-library.com/docs/queries/about

[tl-user-events-docs]: https://testing-library.com/docs/user-event/intro

### Qwikstart

This is a minimal setup to get you started, with line-by-line explanations.

```tsx
// counter.spec.tsx

// import qwik-testing methods
import {screen, render, waitFor} from "@noma.to/qwik-testing-library";
// import the userEvent methods to interact with the DOM
import {userEvent} from "@testing-library/user-event";
// import the component to be tested
import {Counter} from "./counter";

// describe the test suite
describe("<Counter />", () => {
  // describe the test case
  it("should increment the counter", async () => {
    // render the component into the DOM
    await render(<Counter/>);

    // retrieve the 'increment count' button
    const incrementBtn = screen.getByRole("button", {name: /increment count/});
    // click the button twice
    await userEvent.click(incrementBtn);
    await userEvent.click(incrementBtn);

    // assert that the counter is now 2
    await waitFor(() => expect(screen.getByText(/count:2/)).toBeInTheDocument());
  });
})
```

### Qwik City - `server$` calls

If one of your Qwik components uses `server$` calls, your tests might fail with a rather cryptic message (e.g. `QWIK
ERROR __vite_ssr_import_0__.myServerFunctionQrl is not a function` or
`QWIK ERROR Failed to parse URL from ?qfunc=DNpotUma33o`).

We're happy to discuss it on [Discord][discord], but we consider this failure to be a good thing:
your components should be tested in isolation, so you will be forced to mock your server functions.

Here is an example of how to test a component that uses `server$` calls:

```ts
// ~/server/blog-posts.ts

import {server$} from "@builder.io/qwik-city";
import {BlogPost} from "~/lib/blog-post";

export const getLatestPosts$ = server$(function (): Promise<BlogPost> {
  // get the latest posts
  return Promise.resolve([]);
});
```

```tsx
// ~/components/latest-post-list.spec.tsx

import {render, screen, waitFor} from "@noma.to/qwik-testing-library";
import {LatestPostList} from "./latest-post-list";

vi.mock('~/server/blog-posts', () => ({
  // the mocked function should end with `Qrl` instead of `$`
  getLatestPostsQrl: () => {
    return Promise.resolve([{id: 'post-1', title: 'Post 1'}, {id: 'post-2', title: 'Post 2'}]);
  },
}));

describe('<LatestPostList />', () => {
  it('should render the latest posts', async () => {
    await render(<LatestPostList/>);

    await waitFor(() => expect(screen.queryAllByRole('listitem')).toHaveLength(2));
  });
});
```

Notice how the mocked function is ending with `Qrl` instead of `$`, despite being named as `getLatestPosts$`.
This is caused by the Qwik optimizer renaming it to `Qrl`.
So, we need to mock the `Qrl` function instead of the original `$` one.

If your `server$` function doesn't end with `$`, the Qwik optimizer might not rename it to `Qrl`.

## Gotchas

* Watch mode (at least in Webstorm) doesn't seem to work well: components are not being updated with your latest changes

## Issues

_Looking to contribute? Look for the [Good First Issue][good-first-issue]
label._

[good-first-issue]: https://github.com/ianlet/qwik-testing-library/issues?utf8=✓&q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Areactions-%2B1-desc+label%3A"good+first+issue"+

### 🐛 Bugs

Please file an issue for bugs, missing documentation, or unexpected behavior.

[**See Bugs**][bugs]

[bugs]: https://github.com/ianlet/qwik-testing-library/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Abug+sort%3Acreated-desc

### 💡 Feature Requests

Please file an issue to suggest new features. Vote on feature requests by adding
a 👍. This helps maintainers prioritize what to work on.

[**See Feature Requests**][requests]

[requests]: https://github.com/ianlet/qwik-testing-library/issues?q=is%3Aissue+sort%3Areactions-%2B1-desc+label%3Aenhancement+is%3Aopen

### ❓ Questions

For questions related to using the library, please visit a support community
instead of filing an issue on GitHub.

- [Discord][discord]
- [Stack Overflow][stackoverflow]

[stackoverflow]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/qwik-testing-library

## Contributors

Thanks goes to these people ([emoji key][emojis]):
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://noma.to/"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/6018732?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Ian Létourneau"/><br /><sub><b>Ian Létourneau</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/ianlet/qwik-testing-library/commits?author=ianlet" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/ianlet/qwik-testing-library/commits?author=ianlet" title="Tests">⚠️</a> <a href="#ideas-ianlet" title="Ideas, Planning, & Feedback">🤔</a> <a href="https://github.com/ianlet/qwik-testing-library/commits?author=ianlet" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="#example-ianlet" title="Examples">💡</a></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
      <td align="center" size="13px" colspan="7">
        <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/all-contributors/all-contributors-cli/1b8533af435da9854653492b1327a23a4dbd0a10/assets/logo-small.svg">
          <a href="https://all-contributors.js.org/docs/en/bot/usage">Add your contributions</a>
        </img>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
</table>

<!-- markdownlint-restore -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->

This project follows the [all-contributors][all-contributors] specification.
Contributions of any kind welcome!

[emojis]: https://github.com/all-contributors/all-contributors#emoji-key

[all-contributors]: https://github.com/all-contributors/all-contributors

## Acknowledgements

Massive thanks to the [Qwik Team][qwik-team] and the whole community for their efforts to build Qwik and for
the [inspiration][qwik-baseline] on how to create a testing library for Qwik.

Thanks to the [Testing Library Team][tl-team] for a great set of tools to build better products, confidently, and
qwikly.

[qwik-team]: https://github.com/QwikDev/qwik/

[qwik-baseline]: https://github.com/QwikDev/qwik/tree/main/packages/qwik/src/testing

[tl-team]: https://testing-library.com
